Adding the code for Part3 of the ACM GKE blog - enabling Config Connector and initializing GCP resources (#980)
terraform-google-modules/terraform-google-kubernetes-engine: examples/acm-terraform-blog-part3/README.md

# Enable ACM features with Terraform - Part 3

> This is Part3 of the tutorial to accompany a short series of  blog articles explaining how to enable [Anthos Config Management (ACM)](https://cloud.google.com/anthos/config-management) with Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is part three of the tutorial to accompany a short series of blog articles explaining how to enable [Anthos Config Management (ACM)](https://cloud.google.com/anthos/config-management) with Terraform.
```

> In the [first part](../acm-terraform-blog-part1), we explained how to use Teraform to create a cluster and manage its config from git via [Config Sync](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/config-sync-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [first part](../acm-terraform-blog-part1), we explained how to use Tertaform to create a cluster and manage its config from git via [Config Sync](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/config-sync-overview).
```

In the [second part](../acm-terraform-blog-part2) we added guard rails for the cluster configuration via [Policy Controller](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/concepts/policy-controller).

> In this article we'll demonstrate how, using Config Connector, you can provision your GCP cloud resources following the same GitOps K8s native model.

Reviewer: This is a bit verbose/buzzwordy.

```suggestion
In this article we'll demonstrate how, using Config Connector, you can provision your GCP cloud resources following the same Kubernetes-native model.
```

## Provision GCP resources

> 1. Set the variable for the project from [part2](../acm-terraform-blog-part2). We will re-use that project but create a new cluster since we cleaned up at the end of the first section. If you are working in a different project, enable required GCP APIs, as described in [part1/README.md](../part1/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the variable for the project from [part two](../acm-terraform-blog-part2). We will re-use that project but create a new cluster since we cleaned up at the end of the first section. If you are working in a different project, enable required GCP APIs, as described in [part one](../part1/README.md).
```

    ```bash
    PROJECT_ID = [PROJECT_ID]
    ```
1. Note that [wordpress-bundle.yaml](./config-root/wordpress-bundle) was updated to use GCP MySQL database. Also we added [configconnector.yaml](./config-root/configconnector.yaml) to initialize the instance of Config Connector add-on on the cluster.

> 1. Use [kpt](kpt.dev) to customize the `config-root` directory that will be configured as the source of the objects installed on the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use [kpt](https://kpt.dev) to customize the `config-root` directory that will be configured as the source of the objects installed on the cluster.
```

    ```bash

>     kpt fn eval --image gcr.io/kpt-fn/apply-setters:v0.1 ./config-root -- projectId=$PROJECT_ID

Reviewer: We now have a fancy new "set-project-id" function which can set the project ID automatically without having to use setters: https://catalog.kpt.dev/set-project-id/v0.1/

Please switch to that, as we're trying to discourage using setters for these generic use cases.

Reviewer: @AlexBulankou Looks like this is still unchanged?

Reviewer 2: The main reason is simplicity. To avoid duplicating apply-setters logic or calling one kpt function from another. Other functions could generate new resources that also need the setter to be applied. And it was written with assumption that `kpt fn render` will always be called before apply.

Reviewer: I think we should do both—apply the value directly, but also add it to setters.

The `apply-setters` logic should be modularized so it can be used elsewhere as well.

Author: I made the change to use `set-project` and `kpt fn render`

    ```
1. Submit the updated configuration into your branch.

> 1. Ensure that `sync_repo` and `sync_brach` variables are updated in [variables.tf](./terraform/variables.tf)

Reviewer: Typically, variable customization should be done in a `terraform.tfvars` file instead of modifying the actual variable declarations.

Reviewer: Yes, I understand you want users to change the value. That's the whole point of variables—they should edit it in a tfvars file, not just edit the variable default.

Author: My logic was that once the repo is cloned the original values for these specific variables are irrelevant, so there is no value add for customers to carry them over. Although we can say that pointing to this repo informs them of the origin, if we have this pattern with other samples, than I should use tvars.

Reviewer: Right, if we ask users to edit a variable it should be done via `terraform.tfvars` (you can provide them a sample to edit from).

Author: Changd to use tvars file for all 3 parts.

1. Before running Terraform, notice the changes in [gke.tf](./terraform/gke.tf):

>      - we are using `beta-public-cluster` module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - We are using the `[beta-public-cluster](../modules/beta-public-cluster)` module
```

     - `config_connector` variable is set to true

>      - we are using `workload-identity` module to create Google Service Account used by Config Connector to create GCP resource and connect it to Kubernetes Service Account that is running in Config Connector `cnrm-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - We are using `workload-identity` module to create a Google Service Account and connect it to a Kubernetes Service Account that is running in Config Connector `cnrm-system` namespace, allowing Config Connector to create GCP resource.
```

> 1. As as in the previous part, create cluster using Terraform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. As as in the previous part, create the cluster using Terraform:
```

    ```bash
    # obtain user access credentials to use for Terraform commands
    gcloud auth application-default login

    # continue in /terraform directory
    cd terraform

    terraform init

>     terraform plan -var=project=$PROJECT_ID

Reviewer: Small note: in general I recommend simply setting the variables either in a tfvars file or by setting an environment variable (`TF_VAR_project`). Setting them only at the command line is very easy to forget / fat finger.

    terraform apply -var=project=$PROJECT_ID
    ```

>     NOTE: if you get an error due to default network not being present, run `gcloud compute networks create default --subnet-mode=auto` and retry the commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    NOTE: if you get an error due to the default network not being present, run `gcloud compute networks create default --subnet-mode=auto` and retry the commands.
```

> 1. To verify things have sync'ed and the policy controller is installed, you can again use `gcloud` to check status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To verify things have synced and Policy Controller is installed, you can again use `gcloud` to check status:
```

    ```bash
    gcloud alpha container hub config-management status --project $PROJECT_ID
    ```

>     As things initialize, you may see a few transient `error: KNV1021: No CustomResourceDefinition is defined` messages. This occurs when constraints from the repo are sync'ed before Policy Controller has had a chance to load the appropriate template from the policy library. It will eventually reconcile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As things initialize, you may see a few transient `error: KNV1021: No CustomResourceDefinition is defined` messages. This occurs when constraints from the repo are synced before Policy Controller has had a chance to load the appropriate template from the policy library. It will eventually reconcile.
```

    After a short time, in addition to the `Status` showing as `SYNCED` and the `Last_Synced_Token` matching the repo, there should also be a value of `INSTALLED` for `Policy_Controller`.

1. Connect your kubectl instance to the newly created cluster:

    ```bash
    # get values from cluster that was created
    export CLUSTER_ZONE=$(terraform output -raw cluster_location)
    export CLUSTER_NAME=$(terraform output -raw cluster_name)

    # then get creditials for it
    gcloud container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME --zone $CLUSTER_ZONE --project $PROJECT_ID

    ```

1. Verify that Config Connector addon is installed and configured:
    ```bash
    kubectl wait -n cnrm-system --for=condition=Ready pod --all
    ```

    Note: The controller Pod can take several minutes to start. Once Config Connector is installed correctly, the output is similar to the following:

    ```bash
    pod/cnrm-controller-manager-0 condition met
    ```

> 1.  It will take a while for SQL db to be created. You can check on the status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  It will take a while for the SQL database to be created. You can check on the status:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl describe sqlinstance -n wp
    ```

> 1.  Finally, validate that Wordpress powered by GCP database was created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Finally, validate that WordPress powered by CloudS QL was created:
```

Author: Fixed.

In this article we'll demonstrate how, using Config Connector, you can provision your GCP cloud resources following the same Kubernetes-native model.

## Provision GCP resources

1. Set the variable for the project from [part two](../acm-terraform-blog-part2). We will re-use that project but create a new cluster since we cleaned up at the end of the first section. If you are working in a different project, enable required GCP APIs, as described in [part one](../part1/README.md).

    ```bash
    PROJECT_ID = [PROJECT_ID]
    ```
1. Note that [wordpress-bundle.yaml](./config-root/wordpress-bundle) was updated to use GCP MySQL database. Also we added [configconnector.yaml](./config-root/configconnector.yaml) to initialize the instance of Config Connector add-on on the cluster.

1. Use [kpt](https://kpt.dev) to customize the `config-root` directory that will be configured as the source of the objects installed on the cluster.

    ```bash
    kpt fn eval --include-meta-resources --image gcr.io/kpt-fn/set-project-id:v0.1 ./config-root -- "project-id=$PROJECT_ID"
    kpt fn render ./config-root
    ```
1. Submit the updated configuration into your branch.

> 1. Ensure that `sync_repo` and `sync_brach` variables are updated in [terraform.tfvars](./terraform/terraform.tfvars)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that `sync_repo` and `sync_branch` variables are updated in [terraform.tfvars](./terraform/terraform.tfvars)
```
